we're in Sordo flight attendants
recommend using the airplane bathroom
right after boarding and before takeoff
for one thing the laboratories get
cleaned before every flight as why the
place will be mostly germ-free plus
after takeoff the seatbelt sign may be
on longer because of turbulence then you
won't be allowed to get up from your
place better do your business while
still on the ground but before the plane
starts moving plane windows are made of
super-strong plexiglass that can easily
cope with high speeds the window panes
are also shaped in a special way so that
the higher pressure inside the cabin
pushes them against the aircraft body in
other words plane windows are very
unlikely to get broken still accidents
happen for example in 1990 Tim Lancaster
a British Airways pilot who is pulled
out of the cockpit window almost
completely an incorrectly installed
windshield just went out of its frame
the captain spent 20 minutes pinned
against the aircraft's body with crew
members holding on to his legs luckily
after an emergency landing it turned out
the man was almost unharmed the busiest
airport in the world is
hartsfield-jackson International Airport
in Atlanta it sees more than 107 million
passengers a year
it's almost 300 thousand people a day a
commercial plane can easily and safely
fly with just one working engine it'll
make the aircraft less fuel efficient
and decrease the distance it'll be able
to travel but other than that there
won't be any dramatic consequences for
example a Boeing 787 Dreamliner can
travel for five and a half hours with
just one working engine but even if both
engines stopped working at a high
altitude pilots will still have about 20
minutes to find a suitable place for an
emergency landing
just glide right in there the first
plane to fly around the world without
refueling or stopping was Voyager it
happened in 1986 the flight continued
for nine days three minutes and 44
seconds
the most punctual airline in the world
is Garuda Airlines Indonesia's flagship
carrier 95% of its flights operate
within 15 minutes of scheduled Air
Canada flight a co 3-3 carrying 270
passengers was about to land in
Australia after a 14 hour long flight in
2012 but the pilot decided to take a
detour and drop from 37,000 feet to
4,000 feet to help look for a stranded
yacht the aughts man had spent nine days
in the ocean with no fuel and a broken
mast it took the pilots and passengers
25 minutes to locate the yacht the
busiest international route connects
Kuala Lumpur and Singapore it's just a
hundred eighty-four miles long and
remains one of the shortest
international flights the entire trip
takes less than an hour there are 82
flights a day every 18 minutes and more
than 30,000 flights a year a commercial
planes cruising altitude is between 30
and 40 thousand feet that's high in the
air the temperature drops to minus 40 to
minus 70 degrees Fahrenheit it's not so
different from the coldest in
inhabitable place on earth the village
of a makan in Russia the average winter
temperature there is minus 58 degrees
Fahrenheit airplane tyres can withstand
up to 38 tons of weight love the
pressure inside them is six times that
of a car tire they can also touch the
ground at a speed of 170 miles per hour
500 times before they need a replacement
the average cruising altitude of most
commercial aircraft is just 7% of the
distance to space the first airline that
offered its customers a check-in online
was Alaska Airlines it happened more
than 20 years ago in 1999 the system was
first available only to a small number
of passengers it also worked just for
some flights the cockpit windshield of a
Boeing 737 costs up to $26,000 it's
almost as much as a new BMW a passenger
window for the same plane is way cheaper
around five
hundred dollars in the 1970s an airline
named Friel andia transported its
passengers almost for free dubbed not
for profit it also served organic food
and had water beds on board
unfortunately it went bankrupt a year
after being founded a Boeing 747 is made
up of more than six million parts it
takes around 43 days to build this jumbo
jet baggage and airport security
scanners are harmless for your health
that's why Airport employees stay near
them all day long without any protection
your body losses up to 10 glasses of
water during a 3-hour long flight that's
why you should drink a lot to stay
hydrated keep in mind that dehydration
usually makes jet lag much worse a hard
landing isn't always a sign of an
inexperienced pilot in some weather
conditions a soft touch down can lead to
a bad outcome for example when the
runway is wet an aircraft has to break
the water surface otherwise pilots can
lose control over the machine and it'll
hydroplane Etihad Airways has a unique
experience for its clients the residents
it's a three room apartment with a
double bed a separate living room and a
private bathroom right onboard the plane
the ticket will cost you tens of
thousands of dollars depending on your
destination the more carbon dioxide
accumulates in the atmosphere the more
turbulence you experience while flying
the white trails airplanes leave behind
in the sky are called contrails they're
nothing else but condensation while
flying aircraft release hot water vapor
it's pumped out of the exhaust and
freezes in the super cold upper
atmosphere planes regularly get struck
by lightning at least once a year or
once per 1000 hours of flight time these
days it's totally safe the electric
charge simply runs into and out of the
aircraft's aluminum shell it doesn't
cause the plane any damage by the way
airplanes not only get hit by lightning
but they also trigger it
when an aircraft's flying through a
cloud the friction between its fuselage
and the air creates static electricity
sometimes it can cause lightning planes
have high quality air filters they catch
94 to 99 percent of all airborne germs
just make sure to wipe that tray table
with 8 times more bacteria than the
toilet flush button it's the dirtiest
place on board everything taken away
during the security check is usually
stored at the airport for up to 3 months
you also have an opportunity to mail the
confiscated object to any address inside
the country or just wait for a special
online auction and keep your fingers
crossed your belongings show up there
modern planes have special systems that
detect other aircraft mountains and
different solid objects in their path if
there are 10 or more miles between the
aircraft and another plane the system
will start saying traffic traffic
traffic yeah I know if the distance is
smaller than 5 miles the same voice will
tell pilots what to do hey yo turn the
dang plane well yeah well not exactly
like that if the temperature on the
ground drops below minus 40 degrees
Fahrenheit
jet fuel freezes and the plane can't
take off but when the plane is already
in the air it doesn't matter anymore how
cold it is once the aircraft starts
moving the fuel passes through the
engine and heats up nervous Flyers will
feel better in the middle of the cabin
if there's turbulence the central part
over the wings will be shaken less than
the tail and the front of the plane and
finally most airlines only wash plane
blankets once a month hmm I'd recommend
that you use your own jacket scarf or
whatever
rather than cuddle up under the blanket
given by a flight attendant good luck
[Music]